Welcome back.
You may have noticed something while talking about Big O.
Scalable means we worry about large inputs.
What does the end of the graph look like?
So if our function is only worried about really small inputs or we know that our inputs are only going
to be, let's say, an array of five items, big O won't matter as much, does it?
Because over here if the elements are small, all these lines are kind of bunched up together.
They're all the same.
But is that real life?
No, because.
As humans, we tend to think in here and now we tend to think that, Oh, our website's only going to
have 100 users.
That's it.
But what if that user base grows?
What if our inputs grow?
We never know.
When we write code.
We want to write code that can scale so that we don't have to constantly go back and fix things.
Or when things get out of hand, the code breaks.
And that's why Big O is so important to write.
Scalable code means thinking outside of just this small little section over here.
It means thinking long term, thinking big about your code and what could happen in the future.
Now you're thinking to yourself right now, Hey, Andre, I feel like I just learned a whole bunch of
theory and no practical information.
Andre, I want to know exactly how I can use this in my day to day life as a coder.
I'm kind of getting bored here.
Well, with this newfound knowledge, you're going to look at code differently now.
Right.
Let's have a look.
You see now when we look at methods that we get in a language such as methods in an array, when it
comes to JavaScript, we have things like push pop shift on shift.
You see all these methods which are functions have a cost associated with them, a big o cost.
For example, when it comes to arrays, when we search for an item or when we access the first item
in an array, for example, it's O of one.
But when we use something like on shift, well, it actually turns out to be o of n.
And why that is we're going to get into when we talk about the data structure array in the data structure
section, but you're going to start to see for the rest of this course how we use Big O to measure why
one data structure might be better than others.
Why should we use an array instead of, let's say, an object?
Maybe object has better functions that we need for our data.
This graph that we've talked about up until now is actually part of big o chichi dot com.
And if we scroll down here, you'll see that.
Each data structure that is an array and in this case, objects on this table is a hash table.
Again, something that we're going to cover in the data structure section.
But we see that we have different big notation for different data structure.
And some data structures have really good search bigo some have insertions, some have deletion.
And you can see here that there's different pros and cons to each of these data structures.
As you'll find out in this course, data structures are simply ways to store data, and algorithms are
simply functions or ways to use data structures to write our programs.
Remember our instructions for machines, for our computers.
And great programmers have this knowledge where they pick the right data structure, the right algorithms
to write good programs.
Remember our two rules of good code readable and scalable.
And what we've learned is the foundation for us to make a decision of which data structure is going
to be best.
When we get into the data structure section because we're going to know, oh, arrays allows us to access
at oh and one constant time.
But when it comes to searching through an array, it's going to give us linear time.
Versus perhaps maybe an object.
So behind the scenes, even though this section may be a little bit theoretical and boring, what we've
just learned is going to lay the foundation for the rest of the course for us to be able to write good
code for the rest of the sections.
We're going to use Big O to see what is a good solution to a problem and what is a bad solution to a
problem.
And most interviews have this core concept what's the right data structure?
What's the right algorithm to write good programs?
Google hires engineers and developers that know this because they have a lot of scale that they have
to think about a lot of inputs.
And people that know how to handle these programs are the ones that are going to be able to build great
programs.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.